 I want to begin by thanking my good friend and partner, President Calderon, and the people of Los Cabos and Mexico for their outstanding hospitality and leadership.
Mexico is the first Latin American country to host a G20 summit, and this has been another example of Mexico playing a larger role in world affairs, from the global economy to climate change to development.


Since this is my last visit to Mexico during President Calderon’s time in office, I want to say how much I’ve valued Felipe’s friendship and the progress that we’ve made together over the past several years.
And building on the spirit here at Los Cabos, I’m absolutely confident that the deep ties between our countries will only grow stronger in the years to come.


Now, over the past three years, these G20 summits have allowed our nations to pull the global economy back from a free fall and put us back on the path of recovery and growth.
In the United States, our businesses have created jobs for 27 months in a row -- more than 4 million jobs in all -- and our highest priority continues to be putting people back to work even faster.
 
Today, we recognize that there are a wide range of threats to our ongoing global economic recovery and growth.
But the one that’s received the most focus obviously and that does have a significant impact on the United States as well as globally is the situation in Europe.
As our largest trading partner, slower growth in Europe means slower growth in American jobs.
So we have a profound interest in seeing Europe prosper.
That’s why I’ve been consulting closely with my European counterparts during this crisis, as we’ve done here at Los Cabos.

I do think it’s important to note, however, that most leaders of the eurozone, the economies are not part of the G20.
The challenges facing Europe will not be solved by the G20 or by the United States.
The solutions will be debated and decided, appropriately, by the leaders and the people of Europe. 

So this has been an opportunity for us to hear from European leaders on the progress they’re making and on their next steps -- especially in the wake of the election in Greece, and because they’re heading into the EU summit later this month.
It’s also been a chance for the international community, including the United States -- the largest economy in the world, and with our own record of responding to financial crises -- to stress the importance of decisive action at this moment.

Now, markets around the world as well as governments have been asking if Europe is ready to do what is necessary to hold the eurozone together.
Over the last two days European leaders here in Cabos have made it clear that they understand the stakes and they pledged to take the actions needed to address this crisis and restore confidence, stability, and growth.
Let me just be a little more specific. 

First, our friends in Europe clearly grasp the seriousness of the situation and are moving forward with a heightened sense of urgency.
I welcome the important steps that they have already taken to promote growth, financial stability and fiscal responsibility.
I’m very pleased that the European leaders here said that they will take all necessary measures to safeguard the integrity and stability of the eurozone, to improve the functioning of the financial markets.
This will contribute to breaking the feedback loop between sovereigns and banks, and make sovereign borrowing costs sustainable. 

I also welcome the adoption of the fiscal compact and it’s ongoing implementation, assessed on a structural basis, together with a growth strategy which includes structural reforms. 

G20 leaders all supported Europe working in partnership with the next Greek government to ensure that they remain on a path to reform and sustainability within the eurozone.
Another positive step forward was the eurozone’s commitment to work on a more integrated financial architecture -- including banking supervision, resolution, and recapitalization, as well as deposit insurance.
Also, in the coming days Spain will lay out the details of its financial support request for its banks restructuring agency, providing clarity to reassure markets on the form and the amount and the structure of support to be approved at the earliest time. 

It’s also positive that the eurozone will pursue structural reforms to strengthen competitiveness in deficit countries, and to promote demand and growth in surplus countries to reduce imbalances within the euro area.

And finally, I welcome the fact that Europe is determined to move forward quickly on measures to support growth and investment including by completing the European single market and making better use of European funds. 

Of course, Europe is not, as I said, the only source of concern when it comes to global growth.
The G20 also agreed that reversing the economic slowdown demands a renewed focus on growth and job creation.

As the world’s largest economy, the best thing the United States can do is to create jobs and growth in the short term, even as we continue to put our fiscal house in order over the long term.
And as part of that effort, we’ve made significant progress in advancing our trade agenda.
This is an essential to promoting growth, innovation and jobs in the United States.

Here in Los Cabos, we announced important steps towards closer integration with three of our major trading partners.
Both Mexico and Canada have been invited to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, which is an ambitious 21st century trade agreement that will now include 11 countries.
And this agreement holds enormous opportunities to boost trade in one of the world’s fastest growing regions. 

Even as we build this new framework for trade in the Asia Pacific, we’re also working to expand our trade with Europe.
So today, the United States and the European Union agreed to take the next step in our work towards the possible launching of negotiations on an agreement to strengthen our already very deep trade and investment partnership.

In addition, and in keeping with our commitments at the last G20 in Cannes, we agreed that countries should not intervene to hold their currencies at undervalued levels, and that countries with large surpluses and export-oriented economies needed to continue to boost demand.

So, in closing, I’d note that with Mexico’s leadership, we continue to make progress across a range of challenges that are vital to our shared prosperity -- from food security to Greek economic growth that combats climate change, from financial education and protection for consumers to combating corruption that stifles economic growth, and in strengthening financial regulation to creating a more level playing field.
All of this happened in large part because of the leadership of President Calderón.
I want to thank him, and I want to thank my fellow leaders for their partnership as we work very hard to create jobs and opportunity that all of our citizens deserve.